# EngineShootout

I have made a 2-player football game with 5 different levels. Each level has different background music and different environment (background, ball type – including density, size and restitution). For example, the last level is in the desert, so the ball is tumbleweed with a low density and low restitution. The fourth level has a skull ball, so the density is very high while the restitution and size is small.

To improve the user experience I made a main menu that allows you to pick a car colour – you will get an error sound if you press the Play button without selecting a car. Entering your name is optional – if left blank it will be set to the default “Player 1” or “Player 2”. You can edit your name once set by clicking on the edit button. The main menu also allows you to click on buttons to see the instructions and the credits.

I also have a GUI on the top right to pause, mute the music and exit the game. As well as that, in each stage the players’ names will be displayed. The current score line and the goal requirement to pass the level is also shown. You can control the cars using the WASD keys (for player 1) and the arrow keys (for player 2). In order to score, you must hit the ball onto the object behind your opponent – in the first level it is the tree trunk, in the second it is the snowman. Once you have scored the same number of goals as the goal target displayed on the top left, you can progress to the next level by hitting the ball against the block in the sky – this will drop a key which you can pick up. The score line is saved and whoever won that round gets a football icon next to their name. At the end of the 5 levels, the winner is the person who won the most rounds (and therefore has the most footballs next to their name).

I have fully integrated sound in my game. Each level has different background music to suit the scene, as well as the main menu. Every button you click will produce a sound (most are the generic button pressed effects but I also have a button confirm effect when clicking on “play” in the main menu or entering your name. As mentioned earlier, there is also a button error effect – if you try to pause the game in the main menu for example. In addition, when the ball collides with anything a random number between 1 and 4 is picked, and the ball bouncing sound associated with that number will be played. Other sound effects include the cars’ engine noise and crowd chanting playing in the background throughout all the levels. Hitting the block and dropping the key will produce a “pop” noise and picking up the key will play a “level up” sound. Finally, the crowd cheers when you score a goal.

I have tried to make my levels look as different as possible. In my second level, I have added a snowy gif overlay as well as adding a translucent white overlay to give it that snow effect. In my graveyard level, I made it really dark on the sides as it would fit the moonlight shine from the background photo.

What I found particularly hard to do for some reason was to reference the GUI to the main game class. After much tinkering, I managed to achieve this. This allowed the users to enter their names at the start, save it in the game memory and display it during all the levels on top and then use it again at the end to say the name of the winner.
